---
title: "Xylem structure..."
author: "Victor Sibinelli"
date: "`r Sys.Date()`"
output: html_document
---

# Overview

This repository contains all data, scripts, and outputs (including supplementary materials) for the paper "XXX" (currently in progress).

The data were collected from mature wood samples using light and electronic microscopy techniques. For detailed methodologies, refer to the Materials and Methods sections of the article available at [XXXXX](xxxxx).

Contact: Victor Sibinelli (victor.sibinelli@usp.br)

# Repository Structure


## `data`
This directory holds all necessary data files for analysis, including `.csv` and `.txt` files with metadata. All primary measurements were acquired using ImageJ software.

### `raw`
Contains the original data files for analysis:

- **`2xWallThickness`**: Measurements of intervascular double wall thickness.
- **`VesselsDiameter`**: Data on individual vessel diameters.
- **`VesselCount`**: Vessel frequency and fraction data.
- **`Pits`**: Linear measurements of intervascular wall pits.
- **`PitsDiameter`**: Diameter measurements of intervascular pit chambers.
- **`PitsOpening`**: Diameter measurements of intervascular wall pit openings.
- **`PitsArea`**: Area measurements of intervascular wall pits.

### `processed`
Contains `.csv` files with cleaned data after wrangling, table manipulation, and outlier removal.


## `scripts`
This directory includes scripts for running the analysis:

- **`00-library.R`**: Checks for required packages, installs missing ones, and manages package versions using `groundhog`.
- **`01-data_Wrangling.R`**: Handles data manipulation.
- **`02-TestAssumptions.R`**: Performs statistical tests for assumptions (divided by dataset).
- **`03-DataAnalysis.R`**: Generates figures presented in the article (divided by data set).
- **`04-Graphics.R`**: Creates figures for the article (divided by data set).

## `outputs`
Contains results from the analysis and graphics scripts:

### `figs` 
Includes figures produced by the scripts.

- `Assumptions`: Kernel density plots and box plots for normality and homogeneity of variance checks.
- `Plots`:Graphs present in the final manuscript
  
### `tables`
Contains result tables generated by the scripts.


# Repository Usage

For using this repository, run the script **`00-library.R`** (only needed in the first time) and then **`01-data_Wrangling.R`** to create and save the processed data used in the analysis. Then run each **`02-TestAssumptions.R`** script to remove outliers of each data set and save the cleaned data set used in the analyses (saved in the `processed` sub folder in the `data` folder). All images and tables generated in these scripts (Kernel density, variance and outliers removed) are saved in the `Assumptions ` sub folders of their respective `outputs` folder. Then, you can run any of of the **`03-DataAnalysis.R`** scripts for the statistical results and tables from the manuscript (stored in `tables` sub folder in`outputs`). For the figures, run each **`04-Graphics.R`** scripts to create and save the figures inside the `figs`.


This repository was constructed as part of of the discipline BIE5798-USP "Boas práticas e ferramentas da ciência aberta em ecologia".







